or Niall was once part of Asia so Asian
animals colonized its forests they've
been isolated so long that some are now
quite different to their relations on
the mainland
they've become new species like the
proboscis monkey proboscis monkeys are
found only here in Borneo along rivers
and in coastal mangrove forests they get
their name from the male's enormous nose
he hasn't got too much proboscis monkeys
eat leaves but huge stomach is full of
bacteria to help digest them though the
monkeys can deal with old leaves they
much prefer tender young ones to find
them they often have to cross rivers and
that can be dangerous
[Music]
the murky water hides a stealthy hunter
crocodiles eat proboscis monkeys is that
a crocodile or just a floating log
[Music]
crocodiles homed in on any splashing in
the water
[Music]
the monkeys strain every sinew to clear
the danger in a single leap they can't
afford to put a foot wrong
[Music]